The importance of Hospital Scheduling System cannot be underestimated in the health care delivery landscape. Patient scheduling is a complex process that perform a crucial role in
health care. Hospital scheduling performs several functions, from allocating resources to patients in need of exams and allocation of surgery rooms to ondemand appointment scheduling with Family Doctors working at Primary Care clinics. A good appointment scheduling system encourages patient and physician satisfaction, and as such, is an important component of healthcare. The efficiency of health care delivery hinged solely on the effectiveness of the hospital scheduling system. It reduces medical error among practitioner and also reduce the number of unsatisfied patients. Appointment systems have been extensively used to reduce patient waiting times and waiting-room congestion. Such systems have the potential to increase access to medical resources while reducing cost, as well as staff and patient dissatisfaction derived from unmet schedule constraints. The main aim of optimal hospital scheduling is to determine an appointment technique for which a particular measure of performance is optimized under uncertain conditions. Appointment scheduling
system is a system for planning of appointments between resources such as patients, facilities and providers. It is used in order to minimize waiting times, prioritize appointments and optimize the utilization of resources. 
In this system, patient can access the website of the doctor, and through the online software, the patient can easily make their appointments. In addition to that, patient can also provide additional information to the doctor, making the doctor aware of their situation and giving the doctor time to prepare the necessary information for when the patient’s arrives. In this way, it can help the practitioner, the office staff, and the patient’s. For doctors, this system brings a lot of value add services and benefits, like engaging the patient, making the patient feel appreciated, and being able to store patients’ data securely for future
reference. But the most wonderful and useful advantage is that this system is amazingly low cost.
